docs/index.rst, before:

.. Django OAuth Toolkit documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 20 19:40:43 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Django OAuth Toolkit Documentation
====================

Django OAuth Toolkit can help you providing out of the box all the endpoints, data and logic needed to add OAuth2
capabilities to your Django projects. Django OAuth Toolkit makes extensive use of the excellent
`OAuthLib <https://github.com/idan/oauthlib>`_, so that everything is
`rfc-compliant <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749>`_.

See our :doc:`Changelog <changelog>` for information on updates.

Requirements
------------

* Python 2.7, 3.3
* Django 1.4, 1.5, 1.6a1

Index
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install
   tutorial/tutorials


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   changelog

API
====

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   models
   views

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add google group support link

docs/index.rst, after:

.. Django OAuth Toolkit documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 20 19:40:43 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Django OAuth Toolkit Documentation
====================

Django OAuth Toolkit can help you providing out of the box all the endpoints, data and logic needed to add OAuth2
capabilities to your Django projects. Django OAuth Toolkit makes extensive use of the excellent
`OAuthLib <https://github.com/idan/oauthlib>`_, so that everything is
`rfc-compliant <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749>`_.

See our :doc:`Changelog <changelog>` for information on updates.

Support
-------

If you need support please send a message to the `Django OAuth Toolkit Google Group <http://groups.google.com/group/django-oauth-toolkit>`_

Requirements
------------

* Python 2.7, 3.3
* Django 1.4, 1.5, 1.6a1

Index
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install
   tutorial/tutorials


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   changelog

API
====

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   models
   views

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
