docs/management_commands.rst, before:

Management commands
===================

Django OAuth Toolkit exposes some useful management commands that can be run via shell or by other means such as cron
or :doc:`Celery <tutorial/tutorial_05>`.

.. _cleartokens:
.. _createapplication:


cleartokens
~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``cleartokens`` management command allows the user to remove those refresh tokens whose lifetime is greater than the
amount specified by ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` settings. It is important that this command is run regularly
(eg: via cron) to avoid cluttering the database with expired refresh tokens.

If ``cleartokens`` runs daily the maximum delay before a refresh token is
removed is ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` + 1 day. This is normally not a
problem since refresh tokens are long lived.

To prevent the CPU and RAM high peaks during deletion process use ``CLEAR_EXPIRED_TOKENS_BATCH_SIZE`` and
``CLEAR_EXPIRED_TOKENS_BATCH_INTERVAL`` settings to adjust the process speed.

Note: Refresh tokens need to expire before AccessTokens can be removed from the
database. Using ``cleartokens`` without ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` has limited effect.



createapplication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``createapplication`` management command provides a shortcut to create a new application in a programmatic way.

.. code-block:: sh

    usage: manage.py createapplication [-h] [--client-id CLIENT_ID] [--user USER]
                                       [--redirect-uris REDIRECT_URIS]
                                       [--client-secret CLIENT_SECRET]
                                       [--name NAME] [--skip-authorization]
                                       [--algorithm ALGORITHM] [--version]
                                       [-v {0,1,2,3}] [--settings SETTINGS]
                                       [--pythonpath PYTHONPATH] [--traceback]
                                       [--no-color] [--force-color]
                                       [--skip-checks]
                                       client_type authorization_grant_type

    Shortcut to create a new application in a programmatic way

    positional arguments:
      client_type           The client type, one of: confidential, public
      authorization_grant_type
                            The type of authorization grant to be used, one of:
                            authorization-code, implicit, password, client-
                            credentials, openid-hybrid

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --client-id CLIENT_ID
                            The ID of the new application
      --user USER           The user the application belongs to
      --redirect-uris REDIRECT_URIS
                            The redirect URIs, this must be a space separated
                            string e.g 'URI1 URI2'
      --client-secret CLIENT_SECRET
                            The secret for this application
      --name NAME           The name this application
      --skip-authorization  If set, completely bypass the authorization form, even
                            on the first use of the application
      --algorithm ALGORITHM
                            The OIDC token signing algorithm for this application,
                            one of: RS256, HS256
      --version             Show program's version number and exit.
      -v {0,1,2,3}, --verbosity {0,1,2,3}
                            Verbosity level; 0=minimal output, 1=normal output,
                            2=verbose output, 3=very verbose output
      --settings SETTINGS   The Python path to a settings module, e.g.
                            "myproject.settings.main". If this isn't provided, the
                            DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable will be
                            used.
      --pythonpath PYTHONPATH
                            A directory to add to the Python path, e.g.
                            "/home/djangoprojects/myproject".
      --traceback           Raise on CommandError exceptions.
      --no-color            Don't colorize the command output.
      --force-color         Force colorization of the command output.
      --skip-checks         Skip system checks.

If you let `createapplication` auto-generate the secret then it displays the value before hashing it.

Commit message:

Clear expired ID tokens from database (#1223)
The `cleartokens` management command removed expired refresh tokens and
associated access tokens but kept expired ID tokens in the database.

Remove ID tokens when the associated access and refresh tokens are
cleared. Preserve expired ID tokens until the associated access token is
deleted to keep relationships intact and not trigger delete cascades.

Fixes #1222

docs/management_commands.rst, after:

Management commands
===================

Django OAuth Toolkit exposes some useful management commands that can be run via shell or by other means such as cron
or :doc:`Celery <tutorial/tutorial_05>`.

.. _cleartokens:
.. _createapplication:


cleartokens
~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``cleartokens`` management command allows the user to remove those refresh tokens whose lifetime is greater than the
amount specified by ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` settings. It is important that this command is run regularly
(eg: via cron) to avoid cluttering the database with expired refresh tokens.

If ``cleartokens`` runs daily the maximum delay before a refresh token is
removed is ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` + 1 day. This is normally not a
problem since refresh tokens are long lived.

To prevent the CPU and RAM high peaks during deletion process use ``CLEAR_EXPIRED_TOKENS_BATCH_SIZE`` and
``CLEAR_EXPIRED_TOKENS_BATCH_INTERVAL`` settings to adjust the process speed.

The ``cleartokens`` management command will also delete expired access and ID tokens alongside expired refresh tokens.

Note: Refresh tokens need to expire before AccessTokens can be removed from the
database. Using ``cleartokens`` without ``REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`` has limited effect.



createapplication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``createapplication`` management command provides a shortcut to create a new application in a programmatic way.

.. code-block:: sh

    usage: manage.py createapplication [-h] [--client-id CLIENT_ID] [--user USER]
                                       [--redirect-uris REDIRECT_URIS]
                                       [--client-secret CLIENT_SECRET]
                                       [--name NAME] [--skip-authorization]
                                       [--algorithm ALGORITHM] [--version]
                                       [-v {0,1,2,3}] [--settings SETTINGS]
                                       [--pythonpath PYTHONPATH] [--traceback]
                                       [--no-color] [--force-color]
                                       [--skip-checks]
                                       client_type authorization_grant_type

    Shortcut to create a new application in a programmatic way

    positional arguments:
      client_type           The client type, one of: confidential, public
      authorization_grant_type
                            The type of authorization grant to be used, one of:
                            authorization-code, implicit, password, client-
                            credentials, openid-hybrid

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --client-id CLIENT_ID
                            The ID of the new application
      --user USER           The user the application belongs to
      --redirect-uris REDIRECT_URIS
                            The redirect URIs, this must be a space separated
                            string e.g 'URI1 URI2'
      --client-secret CLIENT_SECRET
                            The secret for this application
      --name NAME           The name this application
      --skip-authorization  If set, completely bypass the authorization form, even
                            on the first use of the application
      --algorithm ALGORITHM
                            The OIDC token signing algorithm for this application,
                            one of: RS256, HS256
      --version             Show program's version number and exit.
      -v {0,1,2,3}, --verbosity {0,1,2,3}
                            Verbosity level; 0=minimal output, 1=normal output,
                            2=verbose output, 3=very verbose output
      --settings SETTINGS   The Python path to a settings module, e.g.
                            "myproject.settings.main". If this isn't provided, the
                            DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable will be
                            used.
      --pythonpath PYTHONPATH
                            A directory to add to the Python path, e.g.
                            "/home/djangoprojects/myproject".
      --traceback           Raise on CommandError exceptions.
      --no-color            Don't colorize the command output.
      --force-color         Force colorization of the command output.
      --skip-checks         Skip system checks.

If you let `createapplication` auto-generate the secret then it displays the value before hashing it.
