docs/tutorial/tutorial_01.rst, before:

Part 1 - Make a Provider in a Minute
====================================

Scenario
--------
You want to make your own :term:`Authorization Server` to issue access tokens to client applications for a certain API.

Start Your App
--------------
During this tutorial you will make an XHR POST from a Heroku deployed app to your localhost instance.
Since the domain that will originate the request (the app on Heroku) is different from the destination domain (your local instance),
you will need to install the `django-cors-headers <https://github.com/adamchainz/django-cors-headers>`_ app.
These "cross-domain" requests are by default forbidden by web browsers unless you use `CORS <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing>`_.

Create a virtualenv and install `django-oauth-toolkit` and `django-cors-headers`:

::

    pip install django-oauth-toolkit django-cors-headers

Start a Django project, add `oauth2_provider` and `corsheaders` to the installed apps, and enable admin:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = {
        'django.contrib.admin',
        # ...
        'oauth2_provider',
        'corsheaders',
    }

Include the Django OAuth Toolkit urls in your `urls.py`, choosing the urlspace you prefer. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from django.urls import path, include

    urlpatterns = [
        path("admin", admin.site.urls),
        path("o/", include('oauth2_provider.urls', namespace='oauth2_provider')),
        # ...
    ]

Include the CORS middleware in your `settings.py`:

CorsMiddleware should be placed as high as possible, especially before any middleware that can generate responses such as Django's CommonMiddleware or Whitenoise's WhiteNoiseMiddleware. If it is not before, it will not be able to add the CORS headers to these responses.

.. code-block:: python

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        # ...
        'corsheaders.middleware.CorsMiddleware',
        # ...
    )

Allow CORS requests from all domains (just for the scope of this tutorial):

.. code-block:: python

    CORS_ORIGIN_ALLOW_ALL = True

.. _loginTemplate:

Include the required hidden input in your login template, `registration/login.html`.
The ``{{ next }}`` template context variable will be populated with the correct
redirect value. See the `Django documentation <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.views.login>`_
for details on using login templates.

.. code-block:: html

    <input type="hidden" name="next" value="{{ next }}" />

As a final step, execute the migrate command, start the internal server, and login with your credentials.

Create an OAuth2 Client Application
-----------------------------------
Before your :term:`Application` can use the :term:`Authorization Server` for user login,
you must first register the app (also known as the :term:`Client`.) Once registered, your app will be granted access to
the API, subject to approval by its users.

Let's register your application.

You need to be logged in before registration. So, go to http://localhost:8000/admin and log in. After that
point your browser to http://localhost:8000/o/applications/ and add an Application instance.
`Client id` and `Client Secret` are automatically generated; you have to provide the rest of the informations:

 * `User`: the owner of the Application (e.g. a developer, or the currently logged in user.)

 * `Redirect uris`: Applications must register at least one redirection endpoint before using the
   authorization endpoint. The :term:`Authorization Server` will deliver the access token to the client only if the client
   specifies one of the verified redirection uris. For this tutorial, paste verbatim the value
   `https://www.getpostman.com/oauth2/callback`

 * `Allowed origins`: Browser-based clients use Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) to request resources from origins other
   than their own. You can provide list of origins that will have access to the token endpoint
   of :term:`Authorization Server`. This setting controls only token endpoint and it is not related
   with Django CORS Headers settings.

 * `Client type`: this value affects the security level at which some communications between the client application and
   the authorization server are performed. For this tutorial choose *Confidential*.

 * `Authorization grant type`: choose *Authorization code*

 * `Name`: this is the name of the client application on the server, and will be displayed on the authorization request
   page, where users can allow/deny access to their data.

 * `Hash client secret`: checking this hashes the client secret on save so it cannot be retrieved later. This should be
   unchecked if you plan to use OIDC with ``HS256`` and want to check the tokens' signatures using JWT. Otherwise,
   Django OAuth Toolkit cannot use `Client Secret` to sign the tokens (as it cannot be retrieved later) and the hashed
   value will be used when signing. This may lead to incompatibilities with some OIDC Relying Party libraries.

Take note of the `Client id` and the `Client Secret` then logout (this is needed only for testing the authorization
process we'll explain shortly)

Test Your Authorization Server
------------------------------
Your authorization server is ready and can begin issuing access tokens. To test the process you need an OAuth2
consumer; if you are familiar enough with OAuth2, you can use curl, requests, or anything that speaks http.

For this tutorial, we suggest using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) :

Open up the Authorization tab under a request and, for this tutorial, set the fields as follows:

* Grant type: `Authorization code (With PKCE)`
* Callback URL: `https://www.getpostman.com/oauth2/callback` <- need to be in your added application
* Authorize using browser: leave unchecked
* Auth URL: `http://localhost:8000/o/authorize/`
* Access Token URL: `http://localhost:8000/o/token/`
* Client ID: `random string for this app, as generated`
* Client Secret: `random string for this app, as generated` <- must be before hashing, should not begin with 'pbkdf2_sha256' or similar

The rest can be left to their (mostly empty) default values.

Build an Authorization Link for Your Users
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Authorizing an application to access OAuth2 protected data in an :term:`Authorization Code` flow is always initiated
by the user. Your application can prompt users to click a special link to start the process.

Here, we click "Get New Access Token" in postman, which should open your browser and show django's login.

Authorize the Application
+++++++++++++++++++++++++
When a user clicks the link, she is redirected to your (possibly local) :term:`Authorization Server`.
If you're not logged in, you will be prompted for username and password. This is because the authorization
page is login protected by django-oauth-toolkit. Login, then you should see the (not so cute) form a user can use to give
her authorization to the client application. Flag the *Allow* checkbox and click *Authorize*, you will be redirected
again to the consumer service.

Possible errors:

* loginTemplate: If you are not redirected to the correct page after logging in successfully, you probably need to `setup your login template correctly`__.
* invalid client: client id and client secret needs to be correct. Secret cannot be copied from Django admin after creation.
  (but you can reset it by pasting the same random string into Django admin and into Postman, to avoid recreating the app)
* invalid callback url: Add the postman link into your app in Django admin.
* invalid_request: Use "Authorization Code (With PCKE)" from postman or disable PKCE in Django

Exchange the token
++++++++++++++++++
At this point your authorization server redirected the user to a special page on the consumer passing in an
:term:`Authorization Code`, a special token the consumer will use to obtain the final access token.

If everything is ok, you will be routed to another page showing your access token, the token type, its lifetime and
the :term:`Refresh Token`.

Refresh the token
+++++++++++++++++
The page showing the access token retrieved from the :term:`Authorization Server` also let you make a POST request to
the server itself to swap the refresh token for another, brand new access token.
Just fill in the missing form fields and click the Refresh button: if everything goes smoothly you will see the access and
refresh token change their values, otherwise you will likely see an error message.
When you have finished playing with your authorization server, take note of both the access and refresh tokens, we will use them
for the next part of the tutorial.

So let's make an API and protect it with your OAuth2 tokens in the :doc:`part 2 of the tutorial <tutorial_02>`.

Commit message:

Code review: update allowed_origins documentation

docs/tutorial/tutorial_01.rst, after:

Part 1 - Make a Provider in a Minute
====================================

Scenario
--------
You want to make your own :term:`Authorization Server` to issue access tokens to client applications for a certain API.

Start Your App
--------------
During this tutorial you will make an XHR POST from a Heroku deployed app to your localhost instance.
Since the domain that will originate the request (the app on Heroku) is different from the destination domain (your local instance),
you will need to install the `django-cors-headers <https://github.com/adamchainz/django-cors-headers>`_ app.
These "cross-domain" requests are by default forbidden by web browsers unless you use `CORS <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing>`_.

Create a virtualenv and install `django-oauth-toolkit` and `django-cors-headers`:

::

    pip install django-oauth-toolkit django-cors-headers

Start a Django project, add `oauth2_provider` and `corsheaders` to the installed apps, and enable admin:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = {
        'django.contrib.admin',
        # ...
        'oauth2_provider',
        'corsheaders',
    }

Include the Django OAuth Toolkit urls in your `urls.py`, choosing the urlspace you prefer. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from django.urls import path, include

    urlpatterns = [
        path("admin", admin.site.urls),
        path("o/", include('oauth2_provider.urls', namespace='oauth2_provider')),
        # ...
    ]

Include the CORS middleware in your `settings.py`:

CorsMiddleware should be placed as high as possible, especially before any middleware that can generate responses such as Django's CommonMiddleware or Whitenoise's WhiteNoiseMiddleware. If it is not before, it will not be able to add the CORS headers to these responses.

.. code-block:: python

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        # ...
        'corsheaders.middleware.CorsMiddleware',
        # ...
    )

Allow CORS requests from all domains (just for the scope of this tutorial):

.. code-block:: python

    CORS_ORIGIN_ALLOW_ALL = True

.. _loginTemplate:

Include the required hidden input in your login template, `registration/login.html`.
The ``{{ next }}`` template context variable will be populated with the correct
redirect value. See the `Django documentation <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.views.login>`_
for details on using login templates.

.. code-block:: html

    <input type="hidden" name="next" value="{{ next }}" />

As a final step, execute the migrate command, start the internal server, and login with your credentials.

Create an OAuth2 Client Application
-----------------------------------
Before your :term:`Application` can use the :term:`Authorization Server` for user login,
you must first register the app (also known as the :term:`Client`.) Once registered, your app will be granted access to
the API, subject to approval by its users.

Let's register your application.

You need to be logged in before registration. So, go to http://localhost:8000/admin and log in. After that
point your browser to http://localhost:8000/o/applications/ and add an Application instance.
`Client id` and `Client Secret` are automatically generated; you have to provide the rest of the informations:

 * `User`: the owner of the Application (e.g. a developer, or the currently logged in user.)

 * `Redirect uris`: Applications must register at least one redirection endpoint before using the
   authorization endpoint. The :term:`Authorization Server` will deliver the access token to the client only if the client
   specifies one of the verified redirection uris. For this tutorial, paste verbatim the value
   `https://www.getpostman.com/oauth2/callback`

 * `Allowed origins`: Browser-based clients use Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) to request resources from origins other
   than their own. Provide space-separated list of allowed origins for the token endpoint.
   The origin must be in the form of `"://" [ ":" ]`, such as `https://login.mydomain.com` or `http://localhost:3000`.
   Query strings and hash information are not taken into account when validating these URLs.
   This does not include the 'Redirect URIs' or 'Post Logout Redirect URIs', if those domains will also use the token
   endpoint, they must be included in this list.

 * `Client type`: this value affects the security level at which some communications between the client application and
   the authorization server are performed. For this tutorial choose *Confidential*.

 * `Authorization grant type`: choose *Authorization code*

 * `Name`: this is the name of the client application on the server, and will be displayed on the authorization request
   page, where users can allow/deny access to their data.

 * `Hash client secret`: checking this hashes the client secret on save so it cannot be retrieved later. This should be
   unchecked if you plan to use OIDC with ``HS256`` and want to check the tokens' signatures using JWT. Otherwise,
   Django OAuth Toolkit cannot use `Client Secret` to sign the tokens (as it cannot be retrieved later) and the hashed
   value will be used when signing. This may lead to incompatibilities with some OIDC Relying Party libraries.

Take note of the `Client id` and the `Client Secret` then logout (this is needed only for testing the authorization
process we'll explain shortly)

Test Your Authorization Server
------------------------------
Your authorization server is ready and can begin issuing access tokens. To test the process you need an OAuth2
consumer; if you are familiar enough with OAuth2, you can use curl, requests, or anything that speaks http.

For this tutorial, we suggest using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) :

Open up the Authorization tab under a request and, for this tutorial, set the fields as follows:

* Grant type: `Authorization code (With PKCE)`
* Callback URL: `https://www.getpostman.com/oauth2/callback` <- need to be in your added application
* Authorize using browser: leave unchecked
* Auth URL: `http://localhost:8000/o/authorize/`
* Access Token URL: `http://localhost:8000/o/token/`
* Client ID: `random string for this app, as generated`
* Client Secret: `random string for this app, as generated` <- must be before hashing, should not begin with 'pbkdf2_sha256' or similar

The rest can be left to their (mostly empty) default values.

Build an Authorization Link for Your Users
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Authorizing an application to access OAuth2 protected data in an :term:`Authorization Code` flow is always initiated
by the user. Your application can prompt users to click a special link to start the process.

Here, we click "Get New Access Token" in postman, which should open your browser and show django's login.

Authorize the Application
+++++++++++++++++++++++++
When a user clicks the link, she is redirected to your (possibly local) :term:`Authorization Server`.
If you're not logged in, you will be prompted for username and password. This is because the authorization
page is login protected by django-oauth-toolkit. Login, then you should see the (not so cute) form a user can use to give
her authorization to the client application. Flag the *Allow* checkbox and click *Authorize*, you will be redirected
again to the consumer service.

Possible errors:

* loginTemplate: If you are not redirected to the correct page after logging in successfully, you probably need to `setup your login template correctly`__.
* invalid client: client id and client secret needs to be correct. Secret cannot be copied from Django admin after creation.
  (but you can reset it by pasting the same random string into Django admin and into Postman, to avoid recreating the app)
* invalid callback url: Add the postman link into your app in Django admin.
* invalid_request: Use "Authorization Code (With PCKE)" from postman or disable PKCE in Django

Exchange the token
++++++++++++++++++
At this point your authorization server redirected the user to a special page on the consumer passing in an
:term:`Authorization Code`, a special token the consumer will use to obtain the final access token.

If everything is ok, you will be routed to another page showing your access token, the token type, its lifetime and
the :term:`Refresh Token`.

Refresh the token
+++++++++++++++++
The page showing the access token retrieved from the :term:`Authorization Server` also let you make a POST request to
the server itself to swap the refresh token for another, brand new access token.
Just fill in the missing form fields and click the Refresh button: if everything goes smoothly you will see the access and
refresh token change their values, otherwise you will likely see an error message.
When you have finished playing with your authorization server, take note of both the access and refresh tokens, we will use them
for the next part of the tutorial.

So let's make an API and protect it with your OAuth2 tokens in the :doc:`part 2 of the tutorial <tutorial_02>`.
